---
layout: post
title: Results
description: Considering the relationship between FD and DVARS and the ICC analysis, a conservative ME-ICA denoising approach is the best way to reduce impact of motion without compromising reliability in CVR mapping. Otherwise, a conventional optcom approach is recommended, but with less reduction of motion effects.
image: results.png
---

DVARS and FD show a large correlation in the echo-2 and OptCom preprocessing pipelines, suggesting the relevance of widespread intensity changes related to head motion and calling for further denoising that was not applied here. After ME-ICA the effectiveness in reducing motion-related artefacts depends on how nuisance regression is performed on the OptCom data: ort-meica demonstrates some degree of improvement, whereas considering all of the components in the regression model during pr-meica inherently makes DVARS orthogonal to FD (see Figure 2) and reduces the amplitude of DVARS in average and during BH, although the CVR responses are very similar regardless of the type of preprocessing after averaging across the 72 trials of all sessions (see Figure 3). Figure 4 shows the CVR maps across the 9 sessions for all types of preprocessing for a representative subject. Compared to echo-2, CVR maps obtained from OptCom and ME-ICA preprocessing show higher statistical power and improved physiological plausibility of the CVR estimates, while also reducing spurious negative values. Figure 5 depicts the spatial and general reliability of the CVR estimates using ICC(2,1) values. As predicted, part of the unstructured noise is removed by optimally combining the ME data, increasing spatial reliability. However, the more motion artefacts are removed from the data with ort-meica and pr-meica respectively, the worse the spatial reliability of the CVR maps appeared, indicating a possible contribution of structured noise to the original reliability estimates. Head movement related to breathing tasks likely contributes reliable patterns of confounding artifacts in CVR data, further motivating the incorporation of advanced denoising such through ME-ICA. Interestingly, general ICC is reduced following pr-meica; this may reflect methodological concerns associated with removing a high number of “noise” components that may partially reflect our signal of interest. Alternatively, this may indicate we are better measuring true physiologic variability in CVR occurring over a 9-week study.

Fig. 1: ME-fMRI with optcom and ME-ICA enhances denoising of motion-related effects (i.e. reduced FD-DVARS correlation), but the type of model with data-
driven ICA nuisance regressors is key for denoising performance.
Fig. 2: Optcom and meica-con yield the most reliable CVR maps, while meica-aggr is the least reliable since the effect of interest (CVR) is removed due to high collinearity of motion-related IC components. Overall, meica-con produces the most reliable CVR maps with improved motion denoising.
